Announcer: GRANDPARENTS
ARE GETTING MORE INVOLVED
THESE DAYS.
LET CLARISSA PUT IT
IN THE CAN-- BOWL.
- I WANNA DO IT!
- I'M CLARISSA.
ISN'T HE A NICE DOGGIE?
Announcer:
BUT WHAT DOES THAT
MEAN FOR THE CHILDREN?
I'VE HAD THEM
MOST OF THEIR LIVES.
SO I'M THE ONLY
MOTHER THEY KNOW.
- TODAY...
- Y'ALL HAVE A GREAT DAY.
...A NEW CONCEPT
IN HELPING GRANDPARENTS
HELP THEIR FAMILIES,
AND HOW TO HELP
OUR OWN KIDS UNDERSTAND
THE LESSONS OF LIFE.
THIS IS WHAT IT'S ABOUT.
I'M MISSING YOUR--
"BRAZELTON ON PARENTING."
( theme music playing )
THE ROLE OF GRANDPARENT
HAS CHANGED DRAMATICALLY
OVER THE PAST FEW
GENERATIONS.
FIRST, EXTENDED FAMILIES
WERE THE NORM
AND GRANDPARENTS PLAYED
AN ACTIVE ROLE
IN THE DAY-TO-DAY RAISING
OF THE CHILD.
THEN AS PEOPLE MOVED AWAY
FROM NEIGHBORHOODS
FOR THEIR CAREERS,
FAMILIES BECAME
MORE NUCLEAR
AND I'M AFRAID,
MORE ISOLATED.
TODAY WE ARE PAYING
THE PRICE OF THAT
ISOLATION
AND TURNING BACK
TO TRADITIONAL SOURCES
OF SUPPORT.
WE BEGIN OUR LOOK
AT THE NEW GRANDPARENT
WITH A UNIQUE PROGRAM
THAT'S ADDRESSING
A CRITICAL ISSUE:
GRANDPARENTS WHO'VE
ACTUALLY HAD TO TAKE OVER
THE ROLE OF PARENT
FOR THEIR GRANDKIDS.
SHIRLEY WASHINGTON--
GRANDMOTHER.
SHIRLEY'S 66
AND SHE'S HAD TO TAKE ON
A BRAND-NEW ROLE.
I HAVE THREE
GRANDCHILDREN.
TWO OF THEM ARE WITH ME
MOST OF THE TIME.
WHERE DO I
FIT IN?
BUT SHIRLEY HAD A PROBLEM
MANY IN HER POSITION FACE.
Washington:
I WAS IN A SHELTER.
MY APARTMENT WAS
FLOODED OUT PREVIOUSLY.
WHEN YOU'RE SEARCHING
FOR AN APARTMENT
FOR 10 MONTHS...
- GO, GRANDMA.
- ...SOMETIMES
YOU LOSE HOPE.
BUT WHEN THIS CAME UP,
IT WAS AN ANSWER
TO MY PRAYERS.
YOU WANNA BUY IT?
Brazelton:
THIS IS GRANDFAMILIES HOUSE,
A UNIQUE AND INNOVATIVE
SOLUTION IN SUPPORTING
PEOPLE LIKE SHIRLEY.
Janet Van Zandt:
THE GRANDFAMILIES HOUSE
IS THE FIRST
AND STILL THE ONLY
HOUSE IN THE NATION
THAT IS SPECIFICALLY
FOR GRANDPARENTS
WHO ARE RAISING
THEIR GRANDCHILDREN
WITHOUT THE PARENTS PRESENT.
FOR THESE ELDERS
WHO ARE FEELING THE EFFECTS
OF THE AGING
AT THE SAME TIME
THAT THEY'VE DECIDED
TO TAKE ON
THE CHALLENGE OF RAISING
YOUNG CHILDREN,
WE WANTED TO CREATE
AN ENVIRONMENT
THAT WOULD SUPPORT
THE FAMILIES.
WE WANTED
TO CREATE A PLACE
THAT WAS PHYSICALLY
SUITED FOR THEM,
THAT HAD THE GRAB BARS
IN THE BATHROOMS
AND THE ELEVATORS
AND THE RAMPS,
AND ALSO HAD
THE PLAYGROUNDS
AND THE CHILD-PROOF
WINDOWS
AND THE PROTECTIONS THAT
YOU NEED FOR THE KIDS.
Brazelton:
THE NEED FOR PLACES
LIKE THIS IS GROWING.
Van Zandt:
THERE ARE NOW APPROXIMATELY
1.5 MILLION CHILDREN
WHO ARE LIVING WITH
THEIR GRANDPARENTS WITHOUT
THEIR PARENTS PRESENT.
Brazelton:
COMMUNITIES HAVE
TO RECOGNIZE
THE NEW REALITIES
AND RESPOND,
CITY COUNCILMAN
MICKEY ROACHE KNOWS
ALL TOO WELL.
I WAS PROBABLY
THE LAST ONE TO KNOW
ABOUT THE GRANDSON SO...
ONE DAY I GET HOME,
THERE WAS A LITTLE BASSINET
OR SOMETHING.
IT GOES WILD.
I FIGURED OUT RIGHT AWAY
THIS LITTLE BABY BOY
WAS MY GRANDSON.
75% OF THE GRANDPARENTS
WHEN ASKED WHAT WAS THE
MOST IMPORTANT ISSUE--
WAS HOUSING.
THAT'S WHY THIS IS
SO WONDERFUL TO BE
SITTING HERE TODAY
IN THIS
GRANDFAMILIES HOME.
Brazelton:
THE PROGRAM PROVIDES
MUCH MORE THAN HOUSING.
SUPPORT SERVICES
ARE SPECIALLY DESIGNED
LIKE PRESCHOOL
AND AFTER-SCHOOL
TO MEET THE NEEDS
OF THE GRANDCHILDREN
WHO OFTEN HAVE BEEN THROUGH
A GREAT DEAL OF TRAUMA.
MANY OF THEM WERE
ABUSED OR NEGLECTED.
ALL OF THEM HAVE LOST
THEIR PARENTS IN SOME FASHION.
THEY'RE KIDS WHO HAD
A COUPLE OF STRIKES
AGAINST THEM
TO BEGIN WITH
AND THE FACT THAT
WE CAN BUILD A COMMUNITY
TO SUPPORT THEM
- IS REALLY IMPORTANT.
- THAT'S YOUR GRANDMA!
IN LIVING HERE,
IT HAS MADE THINGS
A LOT EASIER FOR US.
THEY'RE YOUR CHILDREN.
AND YOU KNOW YOU
TRY TO RAISE THEM,
AND YOU DO YOUR VERY BEST
TO RAISE THEM,
THE SAME WAY YOU WOULD
RAISE YOUR OWN CHILD.
BUT THERE IS
A DIFFERENCE IN YOUR
RESPONSIBILITIES.
JANEYA REALLY NEEDS
A LOT OF PATIENCE BECAUSE
OF HER HANDICAP
AND THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT SHE CAN'T HELP.
SHE STOMPS.  SHE SCREAMS,
SHE HOLLER.
THAT'S THE ONLY WAY
SHE CAN GET YOUR ATTENTION
THAT WAY, BECAUSE
SHE CANNOT TALK.
WITH MYESHA, IF IT
WASN'T FOR THE DAYCARE
DOWNSTAIRS,
A REGULAR DAYCARE OUTSIDE
THE GRANDFAMILIES HOUSE,
I DON'T THINK
WE COULD HAVE AFFORDED IT.
Dorothy:
MYESHA, TELL MS. MIMI
I SAID HI.
THE GRANDPARENTS ARE
BETTER OFF FINANCIALLY
FOR LIVING HERE.
THEY HAVE THE RENT
WHICH IS SUBSIDIZED
AND WE'RE ABLE
TO HELP WITH THINGS
LIKE TRANSPORTATION
AND THE ON-SITE PROGRAMS.
THEY'RE VERY PLEASED
THAT WE HAVE A VAN.
WE CAN TAKE THEM
TO SHOPPING TRIPS
AND WE CAN PICK UP FOOD
AND WE CAN DO ACTIVITIES.
WE HAVE A FAMILY ADVOCATE.
WE'VE HAD
A LAWYER COME IN
AND DO LEGAL RIGHTS
OF GRANDPARENTS.
WE'VE HAD
SOMEBODY COME IN
AND DO NUTRITION PROGRAMS,
SOME HEALTH EDUCATION
PROGRAMS.
Dorothy:
THEY HAVE LIKE
A FOOD BANK EVERY FRIDAY
THAT THEY GIVE OUT FOOD
TO ALL THE RESIDENTS
IN THE BUILDING,
AND A LOT OF
DONATION COMES IN.
Brazelton:
GRANDFAMILIES HOUSE
DOESN'T JUST
BENEFIT
THE GRANDPARENTS.
THE GRANDFAMILIES HOUSE
IS IMPORTANT
BECAUSE IT CREATES
A KIND OF COMMUNITY
AND A VALIDATION
THAT OFTEN THEY DIDN'T
GET BEFORE,
WHERE IT SAYS IT'S OKAY
THAT YOU'RE LIVING WITH
YOUR GRANDMOTHER
AND THAT YOUR MOTHER
AND FATHER ARE NOT THERE.
YOUR MISSPELLED WORDS?
Dorothy:
THE HARD PART OF
BEING A GRANDPARENT
IS THAT YOU KNOW
THAT YOUR CHILDREN
MISS THEIR PARENTS.
THE OLDEST CHILD THOUGHT
THAT I WAS SEPARATING THEM
FROM THE PARENT.
I MADE A DECISION
THAT I WOULD LET HER GO
AND STAY WITH
THE PARENT FOR A WHILE.
IT DIDN'T WORK OUT
TOO WELL.
SO SHE GOT HER ANSWERS
AND SHE KNOWS WHERE
THE BEST PLACE IS FOR HER.
- Girl: GENU-INE.
- GENUINE.
- GENU-INE.
- YEAH.
GRANDPARENTS END UP
WITH THEIR GRANDCHILDREN
FOR MANY MANY REASONS.
MOST OF IT
HAS TO DO WITH
A LOT OF THE THINGS
THAT GO ON IN OUR SOCIETY
AS A WHOLE.
THERE ARE ISSUES
AROUND ILLNESSES,
DEATH OF A CHILD,
INCARCERATION,
DRUG PROBLEMS,
MENTAL ILLNESS
IS ANOTHER ONE.
THESE ISSUES ARE
JUST PART OF SOCIETY
AND THE GRANDPARENTS
THAT TAKE ON THIS ROLE
HAVE AGREED TO DO IT
BECAUSE THEY HAVE
A GREAT DEAL OF LOVE
FOR THEIR GRANDCHILDREN.
YOU'VE TAKEN A CHILD
THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN
IN A FOSTER HOME SITUATION
IF YOU HADN'T,
AND YOU'VE
HELPED THEM ALONG
BECAUSE THEY'RE
FEELING A LOT OF LOSS.
IF YOU ASK ANY
GRANDPARENT DOING IT,
THERE ISN'T
ANY OTHER CHOICE.
THEY'RE LOVEABLE.
THEY'RE FUN. THEY HAVE FUN.
THEY JUST KEEP YOU
WANTING TO LOVE THEM
AND DO THE VERY BEST
YOU CAN FOR THEM.
SO I MEAN,
I HAVE NO PROBLEM
WITH THE BURDEN OF IT.
I AIN'T GOT NO COMPLAINT.
I LOVE THEM.
Dorothy:
IF THE CIRCUMSTANCES
CAME UP AGAIN THE SAME WAY,
I WOULD TAKE
MY GRANDCHILDREN.
I WOULD RAISE THEM
BECAUSE I LOVE
MY GRANDCHILDREN
AND IF I HAD TO TAKE
ANY OF THE OTHER ONES,
I WOULD.
- ( girls sing loudly )
- YEAH!
THERE WAS NO CHOICE THERE,
NO OPTION THERE.
I KNEW WHAT I HAD TO DO--
I PRAYED OVER IT.
- GENUINE.
- GENU-INE?
- GENU-INE.
Dorothy:
PROBABLY IF I DIDN'T
HAVE THEM WITH ME,
I WOULDN'T BE
UP AND ABOUT.
- G-U--
- SOUND IT OUT.
I AM.
Dorothy:
I DON'T HAVE TIME
TO JUST MOPE AROUND
AND WORRY ABOUT
WHAT I DON'T HAVE
OR ANY OTHER PREDICAMENT
THAT I THINK THAT I'M IN.
Dorothy:
REWARDED FOR GOOD BEHAVIOR,
EFFORT AND...
Van Zandt:
THERE'S THIS SILENT
SAFETY NET
AND THE PEOPLE
IN THE COMMUNITY
CAN COME FORWARD
AND RISE TO THE OCCASION
AND STEP BEYOND THEIR
OWN PERSONAL NEEDS
AND TAKE ON THESE
CHALLENGES AND SAY,
"WE'LL RAISE THE KIDS.
WE'LL FORM A COMMUNITY,
CLOSE IN AND RAISE
THESE KIDS OURSELVES."
Roache:
ALL OVER THE COUNTRY
YOU'RE GONNA
FIND GRANDPARENTS
OF ALL KINDS, YOU KNOW?
THEY CAN BE WHITE,
BLACK, HISPANIC.
THERE'S A NEED TO PROVIDE
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES FOR
THESE GRANDPARENTS.
YOU GOT TO HOLD ON
AND NANA GOTTA HOLD ON.
Roache:
IT'S A PROFOUND STORY.
IT'S ABOUT COURAGE,
IT'S ABOUT CARING,
IT'S ABOUT UNSELFISHNESS,
AND IT'S MOSTLY ABOUT
THE LOVE OF KIDS.
TODAY WE HAVE
CRYSTAL HOLMES WITH US,
OUR INTERNET
EXPERT FROM IBM.
GRANDPARENTS
AND COMPUTERS?
WHAT'S ON
THE INTERNET FOR US?
( chuckles )
THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
THERE'S QUITE A BIT
OF INFORMATION.
THE SITE WE'RE
GONNA GO TO TODAY
IS THE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION
FOR RETIRED PERSONS.
WE ACTUALLY CAN GO
TO THIS SITE,
ENTER IN A SEARCH WORD
ON "GRANDPARENT."
THEY HAVE QUITE A FEW
DOCUMENTS RANGING FROM
"GRANDPARENTS GOING THROUGH
LIFE TRANSITIONS AND
INDEPENDENT LIVING,"
ALL THE WAY TO "GRANDPARENTS
RAISING GRANDCHILDREN."
THEY EVEN HAVE
SUPPORT GROUPS
FOR GRANDPARENTS
RAISING GRANDCHILDREN.
BUT YOU KNOW,
THE INTERNET PROVIDES MORE
THAN JUST INFORMATION.
IT ACTUALLY IS A VERY ROBUST
COMMUNICATIONS TOOL.
SO GRANDPARENTS
CAN ACTUALLY GET ON
THE INTERNET,
SIGN UP FOR
A FREE E-MAIL SERVICE,
AND THEY CAN COMMUNICATE
WITH THEIR GRANDCHILDREN.
AND IT'S REALLY NEAT
THAT THE TECHNOLOGY
PROVIDES
THE ABILITY TO SEND
DIGITAL PHOTOS.
YOU CAN ACTUALLY GET
A CAMERA THAT YOU PUT
ON TOP OF YOUR COMPUTER.
IF YOUR GRANDCHILDREN
HAVE THE SAME TECHNOLOGY,
YOU CAN ACTUALLY COMMUNICATE
LIVE VIDEO ACROSS THE STREET,
ACROSS THE COUNTRY,
OR EVEN ACROSS THE WORLD.
IT'S A FASCINATING TOOL,
SO I THINK GRANDPARENTS
WILL FIND IT'S A GREAT
THING TO USE.
GOLLY, IT'S JUST AS
IF YOU WERE REALLY
FURNISHING
A COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
BETWEEN THESE TWO
GENERATIONS.
AND THE WONDERFUL THING
IS THAT THE GRANDCHILDREN
MUST FEEL LIKE,
"OH, MY GRANDFATHER IS
JOINING ME IN MY MEDIUM."
AND BERRY,
OUR NEXT INTERNET QUESTION
COMES FROM KAREN
IN PHOENIX, ARIZONA.
HER QUESTION IS...
GRANDPARENTS
ALL OVER THE COUNTRY
MUST BE WONDERING
HOW TO KEEP
IN COMMUNICATION WITH
THEIR LITTLE FAMILIES
WHEN THEY'RE NOT
CLOSE TO THEM.
WE'VE JUST HEARD
SOME WONDERFUL WAYS
TO USE THE INTERNET
TO KEEP COMMUNICATION
BETWEEN GRANDPARENTS
AND GRANDCHILDREN.
I WOULD ADD
SOME OTHER THINGS LIKE:
USE THE TELEPHONE
REGULARLY;
BE SURE TO MAKE
SOME VIDEOTAPES
THAT YOUR GRANDCHILDREN
CAN LOOK AT FROM
TIME TO TIME,
MAYBE EVEN
AS A BEDTIME STORY.
THEN I WOULD ADD
ONE OTHER THING:
BE SURE THAT
YOU AS A PARENT
TALK TO YOUR CHILDREN
ABOUT THE GRANDPARENTS.
"WHEN I WAS A LITTLE GIRL,
THIS WENT ON."
AND THEY'LL PICK UP
ON IDENTIFYING WITH YOU
AND THE GRANDPARENT.
FOR MORE RESOURCES,
VISIT US ONLINE AT...
LTON ON PARENTING,"
PRESENTED BYTHE PARENTING
INSTITUTE AT pampers.com.
ONE OF THE TOUGHEST ISSUES
PARENTS FACE TODAY
IS HELPING
THEIR KIDS COPE
WITH AN IMPORTANT
GRANDPARENT'S ILLNESS
OR DEATH.
I'M JOINED TODAY
BY MARIA TROZZI,
DIRECTOR OF
THE GOOD GRIEF PROGRAM
AT BOSTON MEDICAL CENTER.
HOW WOULD YOU
HELP PREPARE A KID?
WELL, WE CERTAINLY HAVE
TO BE WILLING TO FACE IT
FOR OURSELVES
IF WE ARE EXPECTED TO HELP
OUR CHILDREN FACE IT.
AND I THINK THERE ARE
A LOT OF CONCERNS THAT
PARENTS HAVE,
BUT THERE'S
AN EMBEDDED OPPORTUNITY
FOR HELPING KIDS
DEVELOP RESILIENCE THERE.
AND I THINK THAT'S
WORTH TALKING ABOUT.
RESILIENCE, YOU MEAN
THIS KIND OF FACING
A TERRIBLE SITUATION
CAN COME OUT ALL RIGHT?
WELL, EVEN BETTER
THAN THAT.
ULTIMATELY, CHILDREN
WILL FACE LOSSES
AS THEY GROW UP.
WE WISH THAT
NOT TO BE TRUE,
BUT WE KNOW THAT
IT'S INEVITABLE.
AND HOW A CHILD
FACES A GRANDPARENT'S
ILLNESS AND DEATH
WILL PREPARE HER FOR FACING
OTHER LOSSES IN HER LIFE
WHEN SHE'S AN ADULT
DEPENDING ON
HOW MOM FACES IT,
HOW DAD FACES IT.
THINK OF THE OPPORTUNITIES
FOR EXPRESSING OUR
NEGATIVE FEELINGS--
SADNESS AND ANGER
AND THE FEELINGS OF BEING
OVERWHELMED WITH ILLNESS.
THESE ARE ALL MODELS
THAT CHILDREN CAN
DRAW UPON.
AND I THINK WHAT CHILDREN
PARTICULARLY NEED--
YOUNG CHILDREN,
IS A BEHAVIORAL WAY
OF LOOKING AT IT
THAT IS, TO TALK ABOUT
GRANDPARENTS' BEHAVIOR.
A LOT OF 70-YEAR-OLD
GRANDPARENTS ARE VERY VITAL
AND LEAD VERY ACTIVE,
COMPLICATED LIVES
AS WELL.
AND SO WHEN THEY
BEGIN TO SLOW DOWN,
FOR PARENTS TO BE
ABLE TO TALK ABOUT
THE DIFFERENCES--
GRANDMA USED TO BE ABLE TO--
"I'LL PLAY TENNIS WITH YOU
OR READ WITH YOU."
AND NOW SHE'S SLEEPING A LOT
OR NOW SHE'S
IN THE HOSPITAL.
AND A LOT OF TIMES
CHILDREN JUST DON'T KNOW
HOW TO MAKE SENSE OF THIS.
AND PARENTS DENY
AND WANNA PUT IT
AWAY THEMSELVES,
SO OF COURSE THEY
DON'T WANT TO FACE IT
WITH THEIR KIDS.
- THAT'S RIGHT.
- WHAT WOULD YOU SAY
TO CHILDREN AT DIFFERENT AGES
SO YOU COULD PREPARE
THEM FOR THIS?
IT REALLY DEPENDS SO MUCH
ON THE AGE OF THE CHILD,
AS WELL AS THE RELATIONSHIP
THAT SHE HAS WITH GRANDMOTHER
OR GRANDFATHER.
AND I THINK FOR A CHILD
UNDER THE AGE OF
THREE OR FOUR
TO TRY TO KEEP
THE CHILD'S ROUTINE
AS SIMPLE AS POSSIBLE
AND CONSISTENT
AS POSSIBLE
IS ALWAYS A GOOD IDEA
AND TO BE ABLE TO SAY
THAT GRANDMOTHER
IS VERY ILL-- IS SICK,
PERHAPS NOT THE WAY
YOU GET SICK WHEN
YOU HAVE A COLD
OR WHEN YOU
GET A TEMPERATURE,
BUT IN FACT HAS A DISEASE.
WHEN WE USE LANGUAGE SUCH AS
"WE LOST GRANDPA TODAY,"
YOU KNOW,
"GRANDPA'S SLEEPING"
OR "HE PASSED AWAY"
OR "PASSED ON,"
FOR A YOUNG CHILD,
THAT DOESN'T DESCRIBE
WHAT HAPPENED.
AND IT OFTEN LEADS THEM
TO, AT THE VERY LEAST,
FEEL CONFUSED,
AND AT THE VERY MOST,
ACTUALLY FEEL TERRIFIED,
I REMEMBER SHORTLY
AFTER MY FATHER DIED.
I CAME DOWNSTAIRS
IN THE MORNING AND WAS
GETTING BREAKFAST.
I WAS TAKING
A GALLON OF MILK OUT
OF THE REFRIGERATOR DOOR
AND IT SLIPPED OUT
OF MY HANDS.
AND AS IT DID, THE MILK JUST
SPILLED ALL OVER THE TABLE.
I STARTED CRYING,
REALLY CRYING.
THAT'S NOT MY
TYPICAL WAY OF GOING.
AND THEY LOOKED AT ME
AND JUMPED UP AND
STARTED TO HELP.
WITHIN A FEW MINUTES,
WE WERE SETTLED AT
THE KITCHEN TABLE.
I SAID, "I'M HAVING
A REALLY HARD MORNING.
I'M REALLY MISSING
PAPA RIGHT NOW.
I'M FEELING REALLY SAD,
AND I CAN STILL
MAKE YOUR LUNCH.
I CAN STILL
DRIVE YOU TO SCHOOL."
- I CAN STILL CARRY ON.
- YOU REMEMBERED TO
ADD THAT ON?
ABSOLUTELY.
TO BE ABLE TO DESCRIBE
WHAT YOU'RE FEELING
SO THAT THEY'RE
NOT TERRIFIED.
TO SAY, "THIS IS
WHAT IT'S ABOUT.
I'M MISSING YOUR PAPA
AND I CAN STILL
CARE FOR YOU.
- AND WHY CAN I DO THAT?
BECAUSE I'M AN ADULT."
- YEAH.
AND THAT'S, I THINK,
THE MESSAGE
THAT WE DO FACE
THESE OVERWHELMING FEELINGS,
BUT IF WE HAVE
THE COPING SKILLS,
WE CAN REALLY JOIN
OUR CHILDREN.
IT'S A WONDERFUL THING
TO SHARE.
I THINK PARENTS WOULD
AVOID THAT SO EASILY
BECAUSE THEY WOULDN'T
WANT TO HAVE TO PASS ON
THEIR ON GRIEVING
TO THEIR CHILD.
BUT THEY'RE REALLY
PASSING ON THEIR
COPING SKILLS,
AND THEY'RE ALSO
ACKNOWLEDGING
HOW MUCH THEY LOVE
THAT PERSON.
- AND ISN'T THAT WORTH IT?
- YOU MAKE IT TURN
SOMETHING TERRIBLE
INTO SOMETHING FACEABLE,
AND SOMETHING THAT
CAN HELP CHILDREN LEARN
TO COPE WITH LOSS.
- THAT'S GREAT. THAT'S
WHAT IT'S ABOUT, ISN'T IT?
- ISN'T IT?
Brazelton:
NEXT, WE TALK TO PARENTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
Woman:
WE'VE SOLD OUT.
WE HAVE OVER 900 PEOPLE...
Brazelton:
EACH YEAR WE TRAVEL
ALL OVER AMERICA...
Man:
OUR COMMUNITY IS
SO EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
Brazelton:
TO ANSWER QUESTIONS FROM
THOUSANDS OF PARENTS.
Man:
I'D LIKE TO WELCOME
DR. T. BERRY BRAZELTON.
Brazelton:
HERE ARE SOME OF THEM.
- HI. I HAVE A THREE-AND-
A-HALF-MONTH-OLD GRANDSON.
- GREAT.
WHAT KINDS OF THINGS
CAN I DO TO ENCOURAGE
HIS DEVELOPMENT?
- ENCOURAGE HIS DEVELOPMENT?
- RIGHT.
- OH, SUCH AS WHAT?
- WHAT GAMES, TOYS OR--
- UH-HUH.
- AT THIS AGE,
LIKE MUSIC HE SHOULD
BE LISTENING TO?
- YOU WANT SOME ADVICE?
- MM-HMM.
DON'T PUSH SO HARD,
( laughs )
AND JUST BE
A GRANDMOTHER.
GRANDMOTHERS
AND GRANDFATHERS
ARE FOR RELAXATION,
FOR BEING HELD
IN SOFT COTTON WOOL
AND, YOU KNOW,
BEING NURTURED,
BEING ADMIRED.
ANYTHING THEY DO
IS ADMIRABLE.
AND JUST BEING THERE
AND EVERYTHING THAT
COMES ALONG.
SO WHEN HE LOOKS
AT YOU, LOOK BACK.
THERE ARE SOME THINGS
YOU CAN'T DO.
ONE IS NEVER GO IN
LOOKING A GRANDCHILD
IN THE FACE.
ANYTIME YOU WALK
IN THE HOUSE
AND LOOK AT YOUR
GRANDCHILD IN THE FACE,
YOU GET WHAT YOU DESERVE--
A SCREAMING BABY.
THAT IS SO INTRUSIVE.
SO WHAT I'VE LEARNED TO DO
WITH MY GRANDCHILDREN,
PARTLY BECAUSE MY DAUGHTERS
AND DAUGHTERS-IN-LAW
ARE VERY VERY
SENSITIVE PEOPLE--
BUT ANYWAY, I'VE LEARNED
TO LOOK JUST PAST
THEIR CHILDREN.
AND THEN THE GRANDCHILDREN
LOOK AT ME LIKE,
"PAPA, YOU'RE NOT
SPEAKING TO ME."
AND THEN THEY START
GETTING INTO A RHYTHM
AND I GET INTO
THE SAME RHYTHM WITH THEM.
AND AS SOON AS I'M
IN THE SAME RHYTHM,
THEY BEGIN TO REALIZE.
AND THEN WE GET CLOSER
AND THEN THEY MAKE SOME BID
FOR MY ATTENTION.
AND I USUALLY PASS
THE FIRST BID.
YOU KNOW,
THEY'LL, "PAPA."
AND I'LL TRY
TO IGNORE THAT
AND THEN, "PAPA!"
"YEAH, HI," AND THEN
LOOK AWAY QUICKLY.
AND JUST LET THEM--
LET THEM COME TO YOU.
AND IT'S LIKE MAGIC.
THEY ALL JUST CAN'T WAIT
TO TEASE YOU INTO
A RELATIONSHIP WITH THEM.
AT THREE AND A HALF MONTHS,
I WOULD THINK THE SAME THING.
WHEN YOU PICK HIM UP,
LOOK FOR CUES TO BE SURE
IT'S ALL RIGHT
WITH YOUR DAUGHTER OR YOUR
SON-IN-LAW-- DAUGHTER.
AND BE SURE
IT'S OKAY WITH HER,
AND WAIT UNTIL
HE MAKES A BID FOR YOU.
THEN GO, "HI."
AND THEN WHEN HE MAKES
ANOTHER BID, "HI."
AND JUST GET INTO
THIS LOVELY INTERACTION
WITH HIM.
AND THE ONLY THING
I THINK WE AS GRANDPARENTS
HAVE TO BE
CONSTANTLY AWARE OF
IS HOW JEALOUS
WE MAKE OUR CHILDREN.
- ( audience laughs )
- AND EVERYTHING WE DO
HITS THEM
BELOW THE BELT.
SO BE SENSITIVE TO THEM.
AND THEN IF I EVER EVER
TELL ONE OF THEM
WHAT TO DO--
UGH, I OUGHT TO BE
SHOT THROUGH THE HEAD.
SO I THINK JUST BEING
A GRANDPARENT
IS SUCH A BIG GIFT.
I CAN RE--
I'M A PEDIATRICIAN
BECAUSE OF MY GRANDMOTHER.
SHE USED TO SAY,
"BERRY, YOU'RE SO GOOD
WITH BABIES."
WHENEVER I HEAR THAT NOW,
I SEE HER FACE.
NOTHING LIKE IT.
( chuckles )
( audience applauding )
FOR TAPES AND TRANSCRIPTS
CALL 1-888-847-1220
OR LOG ON AT
www.onparenting.net.
"BRAZELTON ON PARENTING,"
PRESENTED BY THE PARENTING
INSTITUTE AT pampers.com
I'VE ALWAYS THOUGHT
THAT GRANDPARENTS
CAN SHOW THEIR GRANDKIDS
THE MOUNTAINTOPS.
BY THAT, I MEAN
THEY CAN GIVE A CHILD
THE DREAMS
OF WHAT'S POSSIBLE,
AND THE UNCONDITIONAL LOVE
TO FUEL THOSE DREAMS.
I KNOW
MY GRANDMOTHER DID.
SHE'S WHY I'M
A PEDIATRICIAN TODAY.
AND I'LL ALWAYS
BE THANKFUL TO HER.
IF YOU'RE A GRANDPARENT,
DO EVERYTHING YOU CAN
TO KEEP IN TOUCH
WITH YOUR GRANDKIDS.
IF YOU'RE A PARENT,
DO EVERYTHING YOU CAN
TO MAKE YOUR PARENTS
A PART OF THE KIDS' LIVES.
THE REASON IS SIMPLE--
YOUR CHILDREN NEED
THEIR GRANDPARENTS.
( theme music plays )